Research will be carried out using a software called Hashcat. Hashcat is a well-known password cracker. It is designed to break even the most complex passwords. To do this, it enables the cracking of a specific password in multiple ways, combined with versatility and speed. With the power of Hashcat and possibly integrating salting into both Two test, there are commands such, as  Variables testing speed, efficiency, effectiveness, & strength will be executed., we can see strength differences. The CMD command line will be used to check various password key strengths. First what we will need to do is execute a simple download from the public “Hashcat” website and download the Hashcat software. Then retrieve a wordlist in a .txt file. The wordlist can be of any size preferably a larger file. Remember, a bigger wordlist, the more words, which resort to a more proficient result of combinations being examined.  Now you want to create a new txt file, with the hashed form of the word, “password” you need to be un-hashed. For this we can do a test of 24 different combinations. Don’t forget you want to do this in the directory your hashcat.exe folder is saved in. Next you want to Make a new .txt file, name of your choice, easy name could be cracked to automatically generate in that folder every time the hashed combinations are un-hashed and cracked. Finally, you want to enter your commands into the command line to start executing Test 1. Once command line is opened, CD into the directory the Hashcat folder is in. Enter the .exe for the Hashcat (hashcat64.exe). Next go to your arguments. Type in your mode of attack you want to run, in this case it will be –a 3 to decide which attack to use, in this case –a 3 will execute as a brute force attack. –m 0 would be for the hashing method you want to run; in this particular test we will use MD5 which is # 0. (--help) will indicate all hash types. We will use a different hash type for Bcrypt. After that set your workload profile to optimize the computer you are using (3) then your hashed .txt file that you need cracked. (the cracked file to output the cracked hashed passwords or words being tested). Following this you specify the dictionary file, (wordlist file). Your choice would be next to set your characters and style of words, combinations uppercase, lowercase, symbols etc., which you want to indicate. –bf (brute force)- pw (password) –min (minimum) =2 (for minimum key length). Same command with only “min” changed to “max” to set the maximum key length. For character set –bf-cs-buff= type of combinations wanting to test. These steps will be repeated the same with test #2 Bcrypt. Only change would be a different hash method number used in the attack. For example, with MD5 we used –m 0 (0 used to identify type) & shown in figure 5 Bcrypt’s type would be –m 3200.  